{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1662
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww26880\viewh20000\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Legal Notices
\f1\b0\fs24 \
MPEG Layer-3 audio coding technology licensed from Fraunhofer IIS and THOMSON multimedia.\
\
CD, DVD, Blu-ray Disc, and music and video-related data from Gracenote, Inc., copyright \'a9 2000 to present Gracenote. Gracenote Software, copyright \'a9 2000 to present Gracenote. One or more patents owned by Gracenote apply to this product and service. See the Gracenote website for a non-exhaustive list of applicable Gracenote patents. Gracenote, CDDB, MusicID, MediaVOCS, the Gracenote logo and logotype, and the "Powered by Gracenote" logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Gracenote in the United States and/or other countries.\
\
IOS is a trademark or registered trademark of Cisco in the U.S. and other countries and is used under license.\
\
ACELP\'ae is either registered trademark or trademark of VoiceAge Corporation in the United States and/or other countries and used under license from VoiceAge Corporation. The ACELP\'ae.net codec in this product is used under license from VoiceAge Corporation. Copyright \'ae 2002-2003 VoiceAge Corporation. All rights reserved.\
\
The Audible software in this product is used under license from Audible. Copyright \'a9 2002-2003 by Audible, Inc. All Rights Reserved.\
\
1\'96Click\'ae is a registered service mark of Amazon.com, Inc.\
\
Portions of this Software are Confidential Unpublished work. \'a9 1992-2001 Dolby Labs. \'a9 1998 FhG. All rights reserved. Manufactured under license from Dolby Laboratories. "Dolby" is a trademark of Dolby Laboratories.\
\
G-Force visualization engine licensed from Whitecap Technologies, Inc.\
\

\f0\b\fs28 Acknowledgments\

\f1\b0\fs24 Portions of this Apple Software may utilize the following copyrighted material, the use of which is hereby acknowledged.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Beman Dawes ( Boost )\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 2003 Beman Dawes ( Boost )\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished todo so, all subject to the following: The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 The OpenSSL Project 
\f1\b0 ( OpenSSL )\
Copyright \'a9 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project. All rights reserved.\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.  3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgment:  "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"  4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.  5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL Project.  6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following acknowledgment:  "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\
\

\f0\b Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd, Clark Cooper et al. ( expat )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd and Clark Cooper.  Copyright \'a9 2001, 2002, 2003 Expat maintainers.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\

\f0\b Daniel Veillard ( libxslt )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 2001-2002 Daniel Veillard (libxslt).  All Rights Reserved.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the \'93Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DANIEL VEILLARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  Except as contained in this notice, the name of Daniel Veillard shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from  him.\
\

\f0\b Unicode ( Unicode Data Files )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1991-2018 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved.\
Distributed under the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or Software are furnished to do so, provided that either (a) this copyright and permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software, or (b) this copyright and permission notice appear in associated Documentation.\
THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\
\

\f0\b Apple Application Support library attributions:
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b The WebKit Open Source Project ( including portions from the khtml, kcanvas, kdom, and ksvg2 projects ) and JavaScriptCore Project ( including portions from the kjs project )\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 Various contributors as noted below.\
Contributors to the WebKit, WebCore and JavaScriptCore projects include:  Alex Mathews, Alexander Kellett, Alexey Proskuryakov, Allan Sandfeld Jensen, Alp Toker, Anders Carlsson, Andrew Wellington, Antti Koivisto, Apple Inc., Bjoern Graf, Brent Fulgham, Cameron Zwarich, Charles Samuels, Charlie Bozeman, Christian Dywan, Collabora Ltd., Cyrus Patel, Daniel Molkentin, Daniel Veillard, Dave MacLachlan, David Smith, Dawit Alemayehu, Dirk Mueller, Dirk Schulze, Don Gibson, Enrico Ros, Eric Seidel, Frederik Holljen, Frerich Raabe, Friedemann Kleint, George Staikos, Google Inc., Graham Dennis, Harri Porten, Henry Mason, Hiroyuki Ikezoe, Holger Hans Peter Freyther, International Business Machines Corporation, James G. Speth, Jan Michael C. Alonzo, Jean-loup Gailly, Jon Shier, Jonas Witt, Julien Chaffraix, Justin Haygood, Kevin Ollivier, Kevin Watters, Kimmo Kinnunen, Kouhei Sutou, Krzysztof Kowalczyk, Lars Knoll, Luca Bruno, Lucent Technologies, Maksim Orlovich, Malte Starostik, Mark Adler, Martin Jones, Matt Lilek, Michael Emmel, Netscape Communications Corporation, Nicholas Shanks, Nikolas Zimmermann, Nokia Corporation, Nuanti Ltd., Oliver Hunt, OpenedHand, Peter Kelly, Pioneer Research Center USA, Inc., Rob Buis, Robin Dunn, Ronald Tschal\'e4r, Samuel Weinig, Simon Hausmann, Staikos Computing Services Inc., Stefan Schimanski, Symantec Corporation, The Karbon Developers, Thomas Broyer, Tim Copperfield, Tobias Anton, Tony Chang, Torben Weis, Trolltech ASA, University of Cambridge, Vaclav Slavik, Waldo Bastian, Xan Lopez, Zack Rusin, mozilla.org.\
The WebKit, WebCore and JavaScriptCore software is open source software with portions licensed under a BSD license (see Apple's example below) and portions licensed under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.  Please refer to the individual files to determine the license terms that apply to that file. You may obtain a complete machine-readable copy of the source code for the LGPL-licensed portions under the terms of LGPL, without charge except for the cost of media, shipping, and handling, upon written request to Apple.  The WebKit software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the LGPL for more details; a copy of the LGPL is included with this product.\
The khtml software is released under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.\
The kjs software is released under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.  The authors also thank the following people for their help:  Richard Moore, Daegeun Lee, Marco Pinelli, and Christian Kirsch.  The kcanvas, kdom and ksvg2 software is released under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.  \
\pard\tx560\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf2 BSD LICENSE
\f1\b0 \
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \
2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \
3.  Neither the name of Apple Inc. ("Apple") nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li740\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\
Version 2, June 1991 
\f1\b0 \
Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc. \
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA \
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed. \
[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.] \

\f0\b Preamble 
\f1\b0 \
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose authors decide to use it.  You can use it for your libraries, too. \
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things. \
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library, or if you modify it. \
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  If you link a program with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library and recompiling it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.         Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library. \
Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free library.  If the library is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations. \
 Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary software.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all. \
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.  This license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.  This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary license. \
The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program and simply using it.  Linking a program with a library, without changing the library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running a utility program or application program.  However, in a textual and legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library, and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such. \
Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most developers did not use the libraries.  We concluded that weaker conditions might promote sharing better. \
However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.  This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them.  (We have not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.)  The hope is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries. \
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The former contains code derived from the library, while the latter only works together with the library. \
Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General Public License rather than by this special one. \

\f0\b GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE \
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
\f1\b0  \
 
\f0\b 0.
\f1\b0  This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called "this License").  Each licensee is addressed as "you". \
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables. \
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".) \
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library. \
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does. \

\f0\b 1. 
\f1\b0 You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library. \
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee. \

\f0\b 2. 
\f1\b0 You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions: \

\f0\b a)
\f1\b0  The modified work must itself be a software library. \

\f0\b b) 
\f1\b0 You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.       \

\f0\b c)
\f1\b0  You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License. \

\f0\b d)
\f1\b0  If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful. \
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.) \
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, \
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it. \
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to \
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library. \
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License. \

\f0\b 3. 
\f1\b0 You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in these notices. \
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy. \
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library. \

\f0\b 4. 
\f1\b0 You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form \
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange. \
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not \
compelled to copy the source along with the object code. \

\f0\b 5. 
\f1\b0 A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and \
therefore falls outside the scope of this License. \
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License. \
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables. \
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law. \
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline \
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative \
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.) \
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. \
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself. \

\f0\b 6. 
\f1\b0 As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit \
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications. \
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one of these things: \

\f0\b a) 
\f1\b0 Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever     changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.) \

\f0\b b) 
\f1\b0 Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution. \

\f0\b c) 
\f1\b0 If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place. \

\f0\b d) 
\f1\b0 Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy. \
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the "Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for \
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable. \
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally \
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute. \

\f0\b 7.
\f1\b0  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library \
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things: \

\f0\b a)
\f1\b0  Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library     facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above. \

\f0\b b)
\f1\b0  Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work. \

\f0\b 8.
\f1\b0  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any \
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your \
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance. \

\f0\b 9.
\f1\b0  You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it. \

\f0\b 10.
\f1\b0  Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to this License. \

\f0\b 11.
\f1\b0  If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library. \
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances. \
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any \
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice. \
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License. \

\f0\b 12.
\f1\b0  If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the \
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License. \
\pard\li740\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 13.
\f1\b0  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li740\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation. \

\f0\b 14.
\f1\b0  If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally. \
NO WARRANTY \

\f0\b 15. 
\f1\b0 BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. \

\f0\b 16. 
\f1\b0 IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. \

\f0\b END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Alexander Chemeris ( msinttypes )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 2006-2008 Alexander Chemeris\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\'a0this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\
3. The name of the author may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\

\f0\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The FreeType Project ( FreeType )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Portions of this software are copyright 2000-2006, 2007 The FreeType Project (www.freetype.org) (authors:  David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, Werner Lemberg).  All rights reserved.\
The FreeType Project License may be found at http://freetype.sourceforge.net/FTL.TXT\
THE FREETYPE PROJECT IS PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT  WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE  FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED  BY THE USE OR THE INABILITY TO USE, OF THE FREETYPE PROJECT.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler ( zlib )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler.\
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software. Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions: 1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required. 2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software. 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\
\

\f0\b Brian Gladman ( AES implementation, SHA2 Message Digest )\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 2003, Dr Brian Gladman, Worcester, UK.   All rights reserved.\
LICENSE TERMS\
The free distribution and use of this software in both source and binary form is allowed (with or without changes) provided that:  \
1. distributions of this source code include the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer;\
2. distributions in binary form include the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other associated materials;\
3. the copyright holder's name is not used to endorse products built using this software without specific written permission.\
ALTERNATIVELY, provided that this notice is retained in full, this product may be distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL), in which case the provisions of the GPL apply INSTEAD OF those given above.\
DISCLAIMER\
This software is provided 'as is' with no explicit or implied warranties in respect of its properties, including, but not limited to, correctness and/or fitness for purpose.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Google ( TCMalloc )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Copyright \'a9 2005, Google Inc.  All rights reserved.\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above  copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Richard Hipp ( SQLite )
\f1\b0 \
SQLite Copyright \
The original author of SQLite has dedicated the code to the public domain. Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or distribute the original SQLite code, either in source code form or as a compiled binary, for any purpose, commerical or non-commerical, and by any means. \
Contributed Code
\f0\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 In order to keep SQLite complete free and unencumbered by copyright, other contributors to the SQLite code base are asked to likewise dedicate their contributions to the public domain. If you want to send a patch or enhancement for possible inclusion in the SQLite source tree, please accompany the patch with the following statement:\
 The author or authors of this code dedicate any and all copyright interest in this code to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights this code under copyright law.\
Regrettably, as of 2003 October 20, we will no longer be able to accept patches or changes to SQLite that are not accompanied by a statement such as the above. In addition, if you make changes or enhancements as an employee, then a simple statement such as the above is insufficient. You must also send by surface mail a copyright release signed by a company officer. A signed original of the copyright release should be mailed to: Hwaci, 6200 Maple Cove Lane, Charlotte, NC 28269, USA.\
A template copyright release is available in PDF or HTML. You can use this release to make future changes. If you have contributed changes or enhancements to SQLite in the past, and have not already done so, you are invited to complete and sign a copy of the template and mail it to the address above.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 IBM Corporation ( ICU - International Components for Unicode )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1995-2006 International Business Machines Corporation and others.  All rights reserved.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\
\

\f0\b Ross P. Johnson, et al. ( pthreads-win32 )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Copyright \'a9 1988 John E. Bossom\
Copyright \'a9 1999, 2006 Pthreads-win32 contributors\
Pthreads-win32 is open software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation version 2.1 of the License. <http://sources.redhat.com/pthreads-win32/copying.lib.html>\
Pthreads-win32 is several binary link libraries, several modules, associated interface definition files and scripts used to control its compilation and installation.\
Pthreads-win32 is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details. A copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License is distributed with pthreads-win32 under the filename:  COPYING.LIB\
You should have received a copy of the version 2.1 GNU Lesser General Public License with pthreads-win32; if not, write to: Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Thomas G. Lane ( JPEG library )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1991-1998 Thomas G. Lane.  All rights reserved except as specified below.\
The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied, with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided AS IS, and you, its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy. Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these conditions: (1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation. (2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying documentation must state that this software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group. (3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind. These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code, not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to acknowledge us. Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from it.  This software may be referred to only as the Independent JPEG Group's software. We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are assumed by the product vendor.\

\f0\b \
Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. ( TIFF library )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1988-1996 Sam Leffler. Copyright \'a9 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.\
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS-IS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \
\

\f0\b Lucent Technologies ( dtoa.cpp )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1991, 2000, 2001 by Lucent Technologies.  The author of this software is David M. Gay.\
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose without fee is hereby granted, provided that this entire notice is included in all copies of any software which is or includes a copy or modification of this software and in all copies of the supporting documentation for such software.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.  IN PARTICULAR, NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR LUCENT MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE MERCHANTABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
\

\f0\b Netscape Communications Corporation ( arena files; parser )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1998-2000 Netscape Communications Corporation.\
For WebCore/platform/Arena.[h|cpp], other contributors are:  Nick Blievers <nickb@adacel.com.au>;  Jeff Hostetler <jeff@nerdone.com>; Tom Rini <trini@kernel.crashing.org>; Raffaele Sena <raff@netwinder.org.\
For WebCore/rendering/RenderLayer.[h|cpp], other contributors are:  Robert O'Callahan <roc+@cs.cmu.edu>; David Baron <dbaron@fas.harvard.edu>; Christian Biesinger <cbiesinger@web.de>; Randall Jesup <rjesup@wgate.com>; Roland Mainz <roland.mainz@informatik.med.uni-giessen.de>; Josh Soref <timeless@mac.com>; Boris Zbarsky <bzbarsky@mit.edu>.\
For WebCore/html/HTMLDocument.cpp, a contributors is:  David Baron <dbaron@fas.harvard.edu>.\
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/lesser.html, or (at your option) any later version.\
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.\
Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of either the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1, found at http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/ (the\'a0\'93MPL\'94) or the GNU General Public License Version 2.0, found at http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html (the "GPL"), in which case the provisions of the MPL or the GPL are applicable\'a0 instead of those above.\'a0 If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of one of those two licenses (the MPL or the GPL) and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the LGPL, indicate your decision by deleting\'a0the provisions above and replace\'a0them with the notice and other provisions required by the MPL or the GPL, as the case may be.\'a0 If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under any of the LGPL, the MPL or the GPL.\
\

\f0\b Netscape Communications Corporation ( SpiderMonkey, as used in DateMath.cpp )
\f1\b0 \
SpiderMokey:  Copyright \'a9 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 DateMath.cpp:  Copyright \'a9 1999-2000 Harri Porten <porten@kde.org>; Copyright \'a9 2006, 2007 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.\
Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1\
The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License a http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/\
Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.\
The Original Code is Mozilla Communicator client code, released March 31, 1998. \
The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape Communications Corporation.  Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 1998 the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.\
Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of either of the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"), in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Igor Pavlov ( LZMA compression )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Copyright \'a9 2006 Igor Pavlov.  LZMA SDK is available under any of the following licenses:\
GNU Lesser General Public License (GNU LGPL)\
Common Public License (CPL)\
Simplified license for unmodified code (read SPECIAL EXCEPTION)\
Proprietary license\
It means that you can select one of these four options and follow rules of that license.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION: Igor Pavlov, as the author of this code, expressly permits you to statically or dynamically link your code (or bind by name) to the files from LZMA SDK without subjecting your linked code to the terms of the CPL or GNU LGPL. Any modifications or additions to files from LZMA SDK, however, are subject to the GNU LGPL or CPL terms.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION allows you to use LZMA SDK in applications with closed code, while you keep LZMA SDK code unmodified.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION #2: Igor Pavlov, as the author of this code, expressly permits you to use LZMA SDK 4.43 under the same terms and conditions contained in the License Agreement you have for any previous version of LZMA SDK developed by Igor Pavlov.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION #2 allows owners of proprietary licenses to use latest version of LZMA SDK as update for previous versions.\
GNU LGPL and CPL are pretty similar and both these licenses are classified as free software licenses at http://www.gnu.org/ and OSI-approved at http://www.opensource.org/.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Glen Randers-Pehrson, et al. ( png )
\f1\b0 \
libpng version 1.0.8 - July 24, 2000\
Copyright \'a9 1998-2000 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, Copyright \'a9 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger, Copyright \'a9 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.\
COPYRIGHT NOTICE, DISCLAIMER, and LICENSE: \
For the purposes of this copyright and license, Contributing Authors is defined as the following set of individuals:  Andreas Dilger, Dave Martindale, Guy Eric Schalnat, Paul Schmidt, Tim Wegner.\
The PNG Reference Library is supplied AS IS.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special,  exemplary, or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.\
Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject to the following restrictions:  1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.  2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and must not be misrepresented as being the original source.  3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from any source or altered source distribution.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be appreciated.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Eric S. Raymond, Greshon Elber, Toshio Kuratomi ( giflib )
\f1\b0 \
The GIFLIB distribution is Copyright \'a9 1997  Eric S. Raymond.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Danny Smith ( stdint.h for windows )
\f1\b0 \
THIS SOFTWARE IS NOT COPYRIGHTED\
Contributor: Danny Smith <danny_r_smith_2001@yahoo.co.nz>\
This source code is offered for use in the public domain. You may use, modify or distribute it freely.\
This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful but\'a0WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY. ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED ARE HEREBY DISCLAMED. This includes but is not limited to warranties of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
Date: 2000-12-02\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 University of Cambridge ( PCRE )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1997-2005 University of Cambridge\
PCRE LICENCE\
PCRE is a library of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax and semantics are as close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language.  Written by: Philip Hazel <ph10@cam.ac.uk>  University of Cambridge Computing Service, Cambridge, England. Phone: +44 1223 334714.\
Copyright \'a9 1997-2005 University of Cambridge\
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose on any computer system, and to redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:\
1. This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by explicit claim or by omission. In practice, this means that if you use PCRE in software which you distribute to others, commercially or otherwise, you must put a sentence like this\
     Regular expression support is provided by the PCRE library package,\
     which is open source software, written by Philip Hazel, and copyright\
     by the University of Cambridge, England.\
somewhere reasonably visible in your documentation and in any relevant files or online help data or similar. A reference to the ftp site for the source, that is, to ftp://ftp.csx.cam.ac.uk/pub/software/programming/pcre/\
should also be given in the documentation.\
3. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.\
4. If PCRE is embedded in any software that is released under the GNU General Purpose Licence (GPL), or Lesser General Purpose Licence (LGPL), then the terms of that licence shall supersede any condition above with which it is incompatible.\
The documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc" directory, is distributed under the same terms as the software itself.\
\

\f0\b Daniel Veillard ( libxml2 )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1998-2002 Daniel Veillard (libxml2).  All Rights Reserved.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the \'93Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DANIEL VEILLARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  Except as contained in this notice, the name of Daniel Veillard shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from  him.\
\

\f0\b Apple Application Support library attributions:
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b The WebKit Open Source Project ( including portions from the khtml, kcanvas, kdom, and ksvg2 projects ) and JavaScriptCore Project ( including portions from the kjs project )\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 Various contributors as noted below.\
Contributors to the WebKit, WebCore and JavaScriptCore projects include:  Alex Mathews, Alexander Kellett, Alexey Proskuryakov, Allan Sandfeld Jensen, Alp Toker, Anders Carlsson, Andrew Wellington, Antti Koivisto, Apple Inc., Bjoern Graf, Brent Fulgham, Cameron Zwarich, Charles Samuels, Charlie Bozeman, Christian Dywan, Collabora Ltd., Cyrus Patel, Daniel Molkentin, Daniel Veillard, Dave MacLachlan, David Smith, Dawit Alemayehu, Dirk Mueller, Dirk Schulze, Don Gibson, Enrico Ros, Eric Seidel, Frederik Holljen, Frerich Raabe, Friedemann Kleint, George Staikos, Google Inc., Graham Dennis, Harri Porten, Henry Mason, Hiroyuki Ikezoe, Holger Hans Peter Freyther, International Business Machines Corporation, James G. Speth, Jan Michael C. Alonzo, Jean-loup Gailly, Jon Shier, Jonas Witt, Julien Chaffraix, Justin Haygood, Kevin Ollivier, Kevin Watters, Kimmo Kinnunen, Kouhei Sutou, Krzysztof Kowalczyk, Lars Knoll, Luca Bruno, Lucent Technologies, Maksim Orlovich, Malte Starostik, Mark Adler, Martin Jones, Matt Lilek, Michael Emmel, Netscape Communications Corporation, Nicholas Shanks, Nikolas Zimmermann, Nokia Corporation, Nuanti Ltd., Oliver Hunt, OpenedHand, Peter Kelly, Pioneer Research Center USA, Inc., Rob Buis, Robin Dunn, Ronald Tschal\'e4r, Samuel Weinig, Simon Hausmann, Staikos Computing Services Inc., Stefan Schimanski, Symantec Corporation, The Karbon Developers, Thomas Broyer, Tim Copperfield, Tobias Anton, Tony Chang, Torben Weis, Trolltech ASA, University of Cambridge, Vaclav Slavik, Waldo Bastian, Xan Lopez, Zack Rusin, mozilla.org.\
The WebKit, WebCore and JavaScriptCore software is open source software with portions licensed under a BSD license (see Apple's example below) and portions licensed under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.  Please refer to the individual files to determine the license terms that apply to that file. You may obtain a complete machine-readable copy of the source code for the LGPL-licensed portions under the terms of LGPL, without charge except for the cost of media, shipping, and handling, upon written request to Apple.  The WebKit software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the LGPL for more details; a copy of the LGPL is included with this product.\
The khtml software is released under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.\
The kjs software is released under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.  The authors also thank the following people for their help:  Richard Moore, Daegeun Lee, Marco Pinelli, and Christian Kirsch.  The kcanvas, kdom and ksvg2 software is released under the GNU Library General Public License Version 2.  \
\pard\tx560\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf2 BSD LICENSE
\f1\b0 \
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \
2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \
3.  Neither the name of Apple Inc. ("Apple") nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li740\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\
Version 2, June 1991 
\f1\b0 \
Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc. \
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA \
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed. \
[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.] \

\f0\b Preamble 
\f1\b0 \
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose authors decide to use it.  You can use it for your libraries, too. \
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things. \
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library, or if you modify it. \
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  If you link a program with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library and recompiling it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.         Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library. \
Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free library.  If the library is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations. \
 Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary software.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all. \
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.  This license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.  This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary license. \
The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program and simply using it.  Linking a program with a library, without changing the library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running a utility program or application program.  However, in a textual and legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library, and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such. \
Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most developers did not use the libraries.  We concluded that weaker conditions might promote sharing better. \
However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.  This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them.  (We have not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.)  The hope is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries. \
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The former contains code derived from the library, while the latter only works together with the library. \
Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General Public License rather than by this special one. \

\f0\b GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE \
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
\f1\b0  \
 
\f0\b 0.
\f1\b0  This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called "this License").  Each licensee is addressed as "you". \
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables. \
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".) \
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library. \
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does. \

\f0\b 1. 
\f1\b0 You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library. \
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee. \

\f0\b 2. 
\f1\b0 You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions: \

\f0\b a)
\f1\b0  The modified work must itself be a software library. \

\f0\b b) 
\f1\b0 You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.       \

\f0\b c)
\f1\b0  You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License. \

\f0\b d)
\f1\b0  If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful. \
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.) \
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, \
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it. \
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to \
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library. \
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License. \

\f0\b 3. 
\f1\b0 You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in these notices. \
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy. \
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library. \

\f0\b 4. 
\f1\b0 You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form \
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange. \
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not \
compelled to copy the source along with the object code. \

\f0\b 5. 
\f1\b0 A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and \
therefore falls outside the scope of this License. \
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License. \
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables. \
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law. \
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline \
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative \
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.) \
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. \
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself. \

\f0\b 6. 
\f1\b0 As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit \
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications. \
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one of these things: \

\f0\b a) 
\f1\b0 Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever     changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.) \

\f0\b b) 
\f1\b0 Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution. \

\f0\b c) 
\f1\b0 If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place. \

\f0\b d) 
\f1\b0 Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy. \
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the "Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for \
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable. \
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally \
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute. \

\f0\b 7.
\f1\b0  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library \
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things: \

\f0\b a)
\f1\b0  Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library     facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above. \

\f0\b b)
\f1\b0  Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work. \

\f0\b 8.
\f1\b0  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any \
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your \
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance. \

\f0\b 9.
\f1\b0  You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it. \

\f0\b 10.
\f1\b0  Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to this License. \

\f0\b 11.
\f1\b0  If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library. \
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances. \
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any \
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice. \
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License. \

\f0\b 12.
\f1\b0  If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the \
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License. \
\pard\li740\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 13.
\f1\b0  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li740\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation. \

\f0\b 14.
\f1\b0  If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally. \
NO WARRANTY \

\f0\b 15. 
\f1\b0 BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. \

\f0\b 16. 
\f1\b0 IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. \

\f0\b END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Alexander Chemeris ( msinttypes )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 2006-2008 Alexander Chemeris\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\'a0this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\
3. The name of the author may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\

\f0\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The FreeType Project ( FreeType )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Portions of this software are copyright 2000-2006, 2007 The FreeType Project (www.freetype.org) (authors:  David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, Werner Lemberg).  All rights reserved.\
The FreeType Project License may be found at http://freetype.sourceforge.net/FTL.TXT\
THE FREETYPE PROJECT IS PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT  WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE  FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED  BY THE USE OR THE INABILITY TO USE, OF THE FREETYPE PROJECT.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler ( zlib )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler.\
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software. Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions: 1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required. 2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software. 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\
\

\f0\b Brian Gladman ( AES implementation, SHA2 Message Digest )\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 2003, Dr Brian Gladman, Worcester, UK.   All rights reserved.\
LICENSE TERMS\
The free distribution and use of this software in both source and binary form is allowed (with or without changes) provided that:  \
1. distributions of this source code include the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer;\
2. distributions in binary form include the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other associated materials;\
3. the copyright holder's name is not used to endorse products built using this software without specific written permission.\
ALTERNATIVELY, provided that this notice is retained in full, this product may be distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL), in which case the provisions of the GPL apply INSTEAD OF those given above.\
DISCLAIMER\
This software is provided 'as is' with no explicit or implied warranties in respect of its properties, including, but not limited to, correctness and/or fitness for purpose.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Google ( TCMalloc )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Copyright \'a9 2005, Google Inc.  All rights reserved.\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above  copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Richard Hipp ( SQLite )
\f1\b0 \
SQLite Copyright \
The original author of SQLite has dedicated the code to the public domain. Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or distribute the original SQLite code, either in source code form or as a compiled binary, for any purpose, commerical or non-commerical, and by any means. \
Contributed Code
\f0\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 In order to keep SQLite complete free and unencumbered by copyright, other contributors to the SQLite code base are asked to likewise dedicate their contributions to the public domain. If you want to send a patch or enhancement for possible inclusion in the SQLite source tree, please accompany the patch with the following statement:\
 The author or authors of this code dedicate any and all copyright interest in this code to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights this code under copyright law.\
Regrettably, as of 2003 October 20, we will no longer be able to accept patches or changes to SQLite that are not accompanied by a statement such as the above. In addition, if you make changes or enhancements as an employee, then a simple statement such as the above is insufficient. You must also send by surface mail a copyright release signed by a company officer. A signed original of the copyright release should be mailed to: Hwaci, 6200 Maple Cove Lane, Charlotte, NC 28269, USA.\
A template copyright release is available in PDF or HTML. You can use this release to make future changes. If you have contributed changes or enhancements to SQLite in the past, and have not already done so, you are invited to complete and sign a copy of the template and mail it to the address above.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 IBM Corporation ( ICU - International Components for Unicode )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1995-2006 International Business Machines Corporation and others.  All rights reserved.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\
\

\f0\b Ross P. Johnson, et al. ( pthreads-win32 )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Copyright \'a9 1988 John E. Bossom\
Copyright \'a9 1999, 2006 Pthreads-win32 contributors\
Pthreads-win32 is open software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation version 2.1 of the License. <http://sources.redhat.com/pthreads-win32/copying.lib.html>\
Pthreads-win32 is several binary link libraries, several modules, associated interface definition files and scripts used to control its compilation and installation.\
Pthreads-win32 is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details. A copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License is distributed with pthreads-win32 under the filename:  COPYING.LIB\
You should have received a copy of the version 2.1 GNU Lesser General Public License with pthreads-win32; if not, write to: Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Thomas G. Lane ( JPEG library )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1991-1998 Thomas G. Lane.  All rights reserved except as specified below.\
The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied, with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided AS IS, and you, its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy. Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these conditions: (1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation. (2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying documentation must state that this software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group. (3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind. These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code, not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to acknowledge us. Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from it.  This software may be referred to only as the Independent JPEG Group's software. We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are assumed by the product vendor.\

\f0\b \
Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. ( TIFF library )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1988-1996 Sam Leffler. Copyright \'a9 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.\
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS-IS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \
\

\f0\b Lucent Technologies ( dtoa.cpp )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1991, 2000, 2001 by Lucent Technologies.  The author of this software is David M. Gay.\
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose without fee is hereby granted, provided that this entire notice is included in all copies of any software which is or includes a copy or modification of this software and in all copies of the supporting documentation for such software.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.  IN PARTICULAR, NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR LUCENT MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE MERCHANTABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
\

\f0\b Netscape Communications Corporation ( arena files; parser )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1998-2000 Netscape Communications Corporation.\
For WebCore/platform/Arena.[h|cpp], other contributors are:  Nick Blievers <nickb@adacel.com.au>;  Jeff Hostetler <jeff@nerdone.com>; Tom Rini <trini@kernel.crashing.org>; Raffaele Sena <raff@netwinder.org.\
For WebCore/rendering/RenderLayer.[h|cpp], other contributors are:  Robert O'Callahan <roc+@cs.cmu.edu>; David Baron <dbaron@fas.harvard.edu>; Christian Biesinger <cbiesinger@web.de>; Randall Jesup <rjesup@wgate.com>; Roland Mainz <roland.mainz@informatik.med.uni-giessen.de>; Josh Soref <timeless@mac.com>; Boris Zbarsky <bzbarsky@mit.edu>.\
For WebCore/html/HTMLDocument.cpp, a contributors is:  David Baron <dbaron@fas.harvard.edu>.\
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/lesser.html, or (at your option) any later version.\
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.\
Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of either the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1, found at http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/ (the\'a0\'93MPL\'94) or the GNU General Public License Version 2.0, found at http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html (the "GPL"), in which case the provisions of the MPL or the GPL are applicable\'a0 instead of those above.\'a0 If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of one of those two licenses (the MPL or the GPL) and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the LGPL, indicate your decision by deleting\'a0the provisions above and replace\'a0them with the notice and other provisions required by the MPL or the GPL, as the case may be.\'a0 If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under any of the LGPL, the MPL or the GPL.\
\

\f0\b Netscape Communications Corporation ( SpiderMonkey, as used in DateMath.cpp )
\f1\b0 \
SpiderMokey:  Copyright \'a9 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 DateMath.cpp:  Copyright \'a9 1999-2000 Harri Porten <porten@kde.org>; Copyright \'a9 2006, 2007 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.\
Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1\
The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License a http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/\
Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.\
The Original Code is Mozilla Communicator client code, released March 31, 1998. \
The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Netscape Communications Corporation.  Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 1998 the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.\
Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of either of the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"), in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Igor Pavlov ( LZMA compression )
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Copyright \'a9 2006 Igor Pavlov.  LZMA SDK is available under any of the following licenses:\
GNU Lesser General Public License (GNU LGPL)\
Common Public License (CPL)\
Simplified license for unmodified code (read SPECIAL EXCEPTION)\
Proprietary license\
It means that you can select one of these four options and follow rules of that license.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION: Igor Pavlov, as the author of this code, expressly permits you to statically or dynamically link your code (or bind by name) to the files from LZMA SDK without subjecting your linked code to the terms of the CPL or GNU LGPL. Any modifications or additions to files from LZMA SDK, however, are subject to the GNU LGPL or CPL terms.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION allows you to use LZMA SDK in applications with closed code, while you keep LZMA SDK code unmodified.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION #2: Igor Pavlov, as the author of this code, expressly permits you to use LZMA SDK 4.43 under the same terms and conditions contained in the License Agreement you have for any previous version of LZMA SDK developed by Igor Pavlov.\
SPECIAL EXCEPTION #2 allows owners of proprietary licenses to use latest version of LZMA SDK as update for previous versions.\
GNU LGPL and CPL are pretty similar and both these licenses are classified as free software licenses at http://www.gnu.org/ and OSI-approved at http://www.opensource.org/.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Glen Randers-Pehrson, et al. ( png )
\f1\b0 \
libpng version 1.0.8 - July 24, 2000\
Copyright \'a9 1998-2000 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, Copyright \'a9 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger, Copyright \'a9 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.\
COPYRIGHT NOTICE, DISCLAIMER, and LICENSE: \
For the purposes of this copyright and license, Contributing Authors is defined as the following set of individuals:  Andreas Dilger, Dave Martindale, Guy Eric Schalnat, Paul Schmidt, Tim Wegner.\
The PNG Reference Library is supplied AS IS.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special,  exemplary, or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.\
Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject to the following restrictions:  1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.  2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and must not be misrepresented as being the original source.  3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from any source or altered source distribution.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be appreciated.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Eric S. Raymond, Greshon Elber, Toshio Kuratomi ( giflib )
\f1\b0 \
The GIFLIB distribution is Copyright \'a9 1997  Eric S. Raymond.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Danny Smith ( stdint.h for windows )
\f1\b0 \
THIS SOFTWARE IS NOT COPYRIGHTED\
Contributor: Danny Smith <danny_r_smith_2001@yahoo.co.nz>\
This source code is offered for use in the public domain. You may use, modify or distribute it freely.\
This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful but\'a0WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY. ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED ARE HEREBY DISCLAMED. This includes but is not limited to warranties of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
Date: 2000-12-02\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 University of Cambridge ( PCRE )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1997-2005 University of Cambridge\
PCRE LICENCE\
PCRE is a library of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax and semantics are as close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language.  Written by: Philip Hazel <ph10@cam.ac.uk>  University of Cambridge Computing Service, Cambridge, England. Phone: +44 1223 334714.\
Copyright \'a9 1997-2005 University of Cambridge\
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose on any computer system, and to redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:\
1. This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\
2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by explicit claim or by omission. In practice, this means that if you use PCRE in software which you distribute to others, commercially or otherwise, you must put a sentence like this\
     Regular expression support is provided by the PCRE library package,\
     which is open source software, written by Philip Hazel, and copyright\
     by the University of Cambridge, England.\
somewhere reasonably visible in your documentation and in any relevant files or online help data or similar. A reference to the ftp site for the source, that is, to ftp://ftp.csx.cam.ac.uk/pub/software/programming/pcre/\
should also be given in the documentation.\
3. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.\
4. If PCRE is embedded in any software that is released under the GNU General Purpose Licence (GPL), or Lesser General Purpose Licence (LGPL), then the terms of that licence shall supersede any condition above with which it is incompatible.\
The documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc" directory, is distributed under the same terms as the software itself.\
\

\f0\b Daniel Veillard ( libxml2 )
\f1\b0 \
Copyright \'a9 1998-2002 Daniel Veillard (libxml2).  All Rights Reserved.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the \'93Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DANIEL VEILLARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  Except as contained in this notice, the name of Daniel Veillard shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from  him.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Milo Yip ( rapidjson ) \

\f1\b0 Copyright \'a9 2011, Milo Yip.\
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: \
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. \
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Google Inc. ( Protocol Buffers )\

\f1\b0 Copyright \'a9 2008, Google Inc. All rights reserved.\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
Rev. 05-22-2018}